Bootstrap is often described as a way to "build fast, responsive sites" and it is a "feature-packed, powerful, and extensible frontend toolkit". 

Some people refer to it as a "front-end" framework, and some are trying to be more specific by referring to it as a "CSS framework" or a “CSS library”. 

So, what is Bootstrap?

Simply put, Bootstrap is a library of CSS and JavaScript code that you can combine to quickly build visually appealing websites.

Modern web development is all about components. Small pieces of reusable code that allow you to build websites quickly. Bootstrap comes with multiple components for very fast construction of multiple components, or parts of components. 

Another important aspect of modern development is responsive grids which allow web pages to adapt their layout and content depending on the device in which they are viewed. Bootstrap comes with a pre-made set of CSS rules for building a responsive grid.

Bootstrap is very popular amongst developers as it saves development time and provides a way for developers to build visually appealing prototypes and websites.

Bootstrap saves significant time because all the CSS code that styles its grid and pre-built components is already written. Instead of having to have a high level of expertise in various CSS concepts, you can just use the existing Bootstrap CSS classes to produce nicely-looking websites. This is indispensable when you need to quickly iterate on website layouts. 

Once you know how Bootstrap works, you’ll have enough knowledge to tweak its styling and a whole new world of development opens up to you.

Since Bootstrap is so popular, understanding how to work with it is a prerequisite in many web development companies. Additionally, you can be safe in knowing that both you and your team members have a common design system and you don't have to spend time deciding how to build one. You are free to jump from team to team, from project to project, even from one company to another, and you don't need to re-learn "their way of doing things".

All of these points make investing time to learn Bootstrap a great way to boost your web development skills. In this lesson, you’ll be introduced to the core concepts of Bootstrap and learn how to build web pages using it.